cli: implement `node --run <script-in-package-json>` (#52190)
nodejs/node: doc/api/cli.md

[`--experimental-wasm-modules`][] is enabled; and with no extension when
[`--experimental-default-type=module`][] is passed.

## Sub-commands

> ### `node run [command]`

Reviewer: `node inspect` is an existing subcommand. I'm surprised a new section is needed.

Author: `node inspect` is only mentioned in `Synopsis` and there is no specific section for `inspect` in `cli.md`

> ### `node run [command]`

Reviewer 2: This syntax should include the arguments, something like: `node run [command] [arguments]`?

<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

This runs an arbitrary command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.
If no `"command"` is provided, it will list the available scripts.

By default, this command adds the current path appended by
`node_modules/.bin` directory to the PATH in order to execute the binaries
from dependencies.

> For example, the following command will run the `start-server` script of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, the following command will run the `test` script of
```

the current project's `package.json`:

> ```console
> $ node run test
> ```

Reviewer 2: Add examples of how the arguments are handled, like:

````suggestion
```console
$ node run test
```

You can also pass arguments to the script, any argument after the script name will be appended to the script:
```console
$ node run test --verbose
```
````

> $ node run start-server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ node run test
```

[`--experimental-wasm-modules`][] is enabled; and with no extension when
[`--experimental-default-type=module`][] is passed.

## Sub-commands

### `node run <command> [<arguments>]`

<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME

> -->
> 
> This runs an arbitrary command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

This runs an arbitrary command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.
```

[`--experimental-wasm-modules`][] is enabled; and with no extension when
[`--experimental-default-type=module`][] is passed.

## Sub-commands

### `node run <command> [<arguments>]`

<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

> This runs an arbitrary command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This runs a specified command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.
```

“Arbitrary” might mean that it’s our choice which command gets run.

If no `"command"` is provided, it will list the available scripts.

> By default, this command adds the current path appended by
> `node_modules/.bin` directory to the PATH in order to execute the binaries
> from dependencies.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`node run` prepends `./node_modules/.bin`, relative to the current working directory,
to the `PATH` in order to execute the binaries from dependencies.
```

I assume it’s prepending rather than appending? We probably want local dependencies preferred over globally installed ones that share the same names.

For example, the following command will run the `test` script of

> the current project's `package.json`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the `package.json` in the current folder:
```

```console
$ node run test
```

> You can also pass arguments to the script, any argument after the script
> name will be appended to the script:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also pass arguments to the command. Any argument after the script
name will be appended to the script:
```

As separate arguments divided by spaces, or as one large argument with spaces included?

```console
$ node run test --verbose
```

> 

Reviewer 4: This needs an extra section explaining differences from `npm run`, including which of those differences we might address in the future and which we intend to keep as differences. I agree with the others who commented that we don’t want this feature expanding indefinitely in scope, and we should define its intended DX up front in order to prevent people from opening lots of issues for it when it doesn’t behave as _they_ expect. We can say that performance is a top priority for this feature, and that’s a big reason why we aren’t implementing many of the features that `npm run` offers such as folder searching for `package.json` files or running pre/post scripts. The intent behind `node run` is to provide a _simple_ and _fast_ way to run `package.json` scripts, not to move `npm run` into core; if users want the full DX of `npm run`, they should just use that.

Author: We can add this after landing this pull request. I'm not in favor of comparing a Node.js functionality with something else on Node.js documentation, but if that's the case, please let's leave it for another PR discussion.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

#### Intentional limitations

`node run` is not meant to match the behaviors of `npm run` or of the `run`
commands of other package managers. The Node.js implementation is intentionally
more limited, in order to focus on top performance for the most common use
cases.

Some features of other `run` implementations that are intentionally excluded
are:
* Searching for `package.json` files outside of the current folder.
* Prepending the `.bin` or `node_modules/.bin` paths of folders outside of the
  current folder.
* Running `pre` or `post` scripts in addition to the specified script.
* Defining package manager-specific environment variables.
* Setting `process.title`.
```

Author: Added. Thank you for helping me.

[`--experimental-wasm-modules`][] is enabled; and with no extension when
[`--experimental-default-type=module`][] is passed.

## Sub-commands

### `node run <command> [<arguments>]`

<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

This runs a specified command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.
If no `"command"` is provided, it will list the available scripts.

> `node run` prepends `./node_modules/.bin`, relative to the current

Reviewer 5: One of the options for the "version manager" discussion which I believe should be kept on the table is to use `node_modules/.bin` as a way to manage the users `PATH` for tool versions their projects depend on. If we land this PR, that could mean that something like `node run node` is part of the platform experience. Since I am being asked to rush in feedback on this I just wanted to point out this might be problematic or at least confusing and I am not sure I have a clear answer about how this might play together.

Reviewer 4: This is experimental, so we can always change it as needed (or remove it).

working directory, to the `PATH` in order to execute the binaries from
dependencies.

For example, the following command will run the `test` script of
the `package.json` in the current folder:

```console
$ node run test
```

You can also pass arguments to the command. Any argument after the script
name will be appended to the script:

```console
$ node run test --verbose
```

#### Intentional limitations

`node run` is not meant to match the behaviors of `npm run` or of the `run`
commands of other package managers. The Node.js implementation is intentionally
more limited, in order to focus on top performance for the most common use
cases.
Some features of other `run` implementations that are intentionally excluded
are:

* Searching for `package.json` files outside the current folder.
* Prepending the `.bin` or `node_modules/.bin` paths of folders outside the

>   current folder.

Reviewer 6: Without the first two bullet points here, it could mean that it won't work with monorepos.

Since this feature is experimental, I suppose it could be added later without semver major so not a blocker now.

Reviewer 5: IMO it should not "work with monorepos" in that it should not traverse the parent directories in search of a "workspace root". If you take a look at the way different tooling is doing this today it is different enough that I don't think Node.js should be attempting to bridge those gaps. AFAIK no node features today know anything about "js monorepos" and I would prefer to keep it that way. IMO this should *only* look for the `package.json` in the cwd and error if not found (I read the code a week or to ago now so do not remember if that is what it does, but I thought that was it).

Author: I added this to the code as `TODO`. This is not the end product.

* Running `pre` or `post` scripts in addition to the specified script.
* Defining package manager-specific environment variables.

> * Setting `process.title`.

Reviewer 7: What does this mean to users though? Either we find it unnecessary for a feature coming from Node.js core, then we can discard this line, or we should explain the security implication of it.

Author: I'm fine with removing this line. cc @GeoffreyBooth

Use [`--import`][] to preload an [ECMAScript module][].
Modules preloaded with `--require` will run before modules preloaded with `--import`.

### `--run`

<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

This runs a specified command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object.
If no `"command"` is provided, it will list the available scripts.

> `node run` prepends `./node_modules/.bin`, relative to the current

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
`--run` prepends `./node_modules/.bin`, relative to the current
```

working directory, to the `PATH` in order to execute the binaries from
dependencies.

For example, the following command will run the `test` script of
the `package.json` in the current folder:

```console

> $ node run test

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
$ node --run test
```

```

You can also pass arguments to the command. Any argument after `--` will
be appended to the script:

```console

> $ node run test -- --verbose

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
$ node --run test -- --verbose
```

```

#### Intentional limitations

> `node run` is not meant to match the behaviors of `npm run` or of the `run`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
`node --run` is not meant to match the behaviors of `npm run` or of the `run`
```
